in our look at amd's ryzen 8000g series
processors we are going to be laser
focused on the two SKS that AMD actually
wants anybody talking about the
8700g and the 8600 G and the reason for
that is the other ones are are really a
lot less exciting AMD didn't mention
this to me when we covered these chips
at their announcement at CES this year
but the two lower-end chips not only use
zen4 C cores the more compact ones they
also have fewer pcie Lanes which could
be a problem for the future
expandability of your system if you kind
of see our conclusion on these chips
you're going to see why we think is a
pretty big problem for now though let's
focus on the 8600 G and 8700g they come
packaged about like you'd expect from
AMD got your little sticker in there and
as with any of their am5 socket
processors there are no pins on the back
instead it uses an LGA or pad style
mounting mechanism with the pins being
inside the CPU socket they don't come
with much in the way of accessories but
unlike amd's X Series chips they do at
least come with a cooler it's a simple
aluminum heat sink with what appears to
be a 92 mm fan of course if you step up
to the ryzen 7 variant you get a simple
aluminum heat sink with a 90 mm fan but
taller which it doesn't need to be its
height was fine as it was the way before
no in all seriousness uh being taller is
better in this case more uh heat
dissipation
in all seriousness the main claim to
fame of these chips is not that they
have better CPU performance they use the
same Zen 4 or in the case of the
lower-end ones Zen 4C chips that we've
seen in amd's previous processors but
they are a new model year so they get a
new number because that's apparently how
AMD does things now and they have
onboard Graphics that is now on par with
what AMD has been shipping in their
Mobile Solutions so just like we've seen
in Mobile consoles like the Rog Ally and
the Lenovo Legion go we can run AAA
games okay not high details 120 FPS but
1080p low 30 to 60 FPS does that seem
realistic maybe even a little faster
because we're running in a desktop form
factor now which means we can unlock a
little bit more power budget although my
understanding is that most of this has
gone to enabling higher basee clocks on
the CPU portion of the chip rather than
the GPU though it should be noted that
only the
8700g actually gets the higher base
clocks the 8600 G is on par with its
mobile equivalent I've got a bunch of
benchmarks from the labs team which we
will take a look at very soon because
AMD claims that these things are in a
similar performance class as an Intel
CPU paired with a dedicated Nvidia GPU
at around the same price which is a
pretty bold claim indeed
but before I do that I have to boldly
tell you about our sponsor charge get
ready to chill with the ice mag the
coolest power bank on the Block pun
intended its active cooling system means
saying goodbye to wireless charging that
gets too hot not only does it keep your
devic is charged but its cool
transparent look and RGB lighting shows
people that you know how to party with a
10,000 milliamp capacity mag safe
compatibility Chi support for wireless
charging and up to 20 W charging over
USBC it's the power bank that all the
other power Banks want to date and don't
forget it's Unique low current mode and
Airline safe features perfect for
partying on the PJ or any other regular
plane check out the charge ice mag at
the link below
230 to
$330 that is a lot to spend on a CPU in
a system where the budget didn't account
for a dedicated graphics card however if
we think of this as a CPU and a graphics
card well all of a sudden it starts to
become more reasonable now it should be
noted that there are CPU GPU combos that
would net you a better value than this
today like if you were to go for amd's
own am4 platform and then an RX 6600 GPU
but as long as this is close I think
it's a lot more compelling and the
reason for that is that you're not
buying into a dead platform and I'm an
upgrader right like I think of every PC
as a PC of thesis so if there's
something that I'm going to be able to
add to over time having Zen 4 cores
having a more modern platform that's
something that's going to appeal to me a
lot immediately I'm noticing that
loading times are about what I would
expect for a modern platform which makes
sense you get anywhere from 6 to eight
Zen 4 cores with the two chips we're
looking at today and golly G
whizzers I don't have an FPS counter up
but this is cyberpunk 2077 running at
1080p
low and if I had to guess I'd say this
is running it anywhere from 30 to 40
frames per second maybe even 40
45 that is super
cool how about this
cop look at that I won the power of AMD
compels me now obviously AMD is being a
little bit optimistic in their marketing
materials for these chips I mean when
they say 60 FPS they mean with FSR
they're upscaling technology but if you
can get 30 without upscaling technology
you will be experiencing cyberpunk gosh
darn it and without a GPU all those
years ago AMD was all AMD Fusion man
we're going to put CPUs with gpus in the
same chip man it's going to be so cool
and here we are what 10 11 years later
and they're finally doing it and there's
even even workloads that really will
take advantage of both of those elements
of the chip okay we didn't really test
cin bench with the GPU but we could have
and this really highlights what I was
mentioning before about how much better
it is to have a modern platform with
modern course compared to going am4
ryzen 55600 G Falls way behind these
chips also in blender they put up very
competitive CPU numbers within
particular the 8700g outclassing
anything else in this kind of price
range if on the Intel side you had to
account for that you need a dedicated
GPU because they do not have anything
even near this kind of performance in
onboard graphics and as for szip it's
pretty much the same story these are
powerful CPUs with really decent gpus on
them and some workloads like stable
diffusion will make a lot of sense to
run on the GPU actually for that matter
they could make sense to run on the AI
course but much like amd's promises 10
years ago with Fusion we haven't seen
too many consumer applications for these
AI cores just yet we're just kind of
hoping that by the time we would use
them every day this chip is not
completely irrelevant oh what were the
cyberpunk numbers I never actually
confirmed pretty close oh man I'm good
46 37 FPS 1% lows average 46 dang I
don't even need frame view man if we
move on to something like rocket League
I mean this is 100 FPS easy and it's not
just the smoothness of the animations a
big part of what makes higher frame
rates feel better is that there's less
latency so I can really feel that my
inputs are being registered on the
screen much more quickly having a look
at the rest of our results it's clear
that whether you choose the 8700g or the
8600 G no you're not going to be on par
necessarily with an entrylevel GeForce
card but what you will be is able to
game now with the potential to upgrade
to a real graphics card in the future
like one that comes on a card while
still retaining these high performance
zen4 CPU cores is this going to be the
right path for everybody no I don't
think so at all if you are looking for
the absolute best bang for your buck I'm
always going to advocate for going for
what gives you the most FPS per dollar
today and a lot of the times that's
going to be something that's not going
to have as much of an upgrade path or
it's going to be something that comes
second hand in terms of something that
could be reasonably future proof I love
this as much as I did when AMD first
announced it finally something for the
entry level Gamers out there a viable
option that isn't just well why don't
you buy our old stuff which isn't to say
that I don't have some annoyances with
AMD about this launch one of the things
they glossed over when they did my
briefing was the number of pcie lanes on
these chips the 86 and
8700g do not have enough pcie
connectivity to connect a graphics card
at the full by6 link width so you're
limited to a buy eight link to your GPU
with pcie being as fast as it is these
days it's probably not going to impact
things too much unless you were putting
a much older GPU on it which you
wouldn't cuz it has a powerful GPU in it
already but especially on the lower-end
chips where they only get a buy4 link to
a GPU they're really shooting themselves
in the foot If part of the value of
these chips is supposed to be that PC of
thesias upgrade story because I would
not want to use a by4 link to my GPU
unless I was on a laptop using fun bolt
or something like that so still room for
improvement but overall I'm happy to
have an entry-level desktop option cuz
it just hasn't made sense to me for so
long that they have these great
integrated gpus on mobile but we have to
slum it on the desktop with these super
cut down versions if you guys enjoyed
this video why don't you check out our
unboxing of the RX 7600 XT a new GPU
from AMD that is an option subscribe to
Short Circuit